[music]
This is business breakdowns.
Business breakdowns is a series of
conversations [music] with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business. For each business, we explore
[music] its history, its business model,
its competitive advantages, and what
makes it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn [music] from and we are here
to bring them to you. To find more
episodes of breakdowns, [music] check
out join colossus.com.
All opinions expressed by hosts and
podcast guests are solely their own
opinions. [music] Hosts, podcast guests,
their employers, or affiliates may
maintain positions in the securities
[music] discussed in this podcast. This
podcast is forformational purposes only
and should not be relied upon as a
[music] basis for investment decisions.
This is Matt Russell and today we are
breaking down [music] the cyber security
giant Cloudflare. Today, Cloudflare
controls over 20% of the world's web
traffic. And to me, an equally notable
metric is that Cloudflare absorbs 2.5
million cyber attacks per second. My
guest for this episode is Sam Eden,
investor at Square Peg's Global Tech
Fund. And while I could understand on
the surface what Cloudflare does, Sam
really helped me get into the weeds on
how the digital pipes actually work. So
we go through the rise of Cloudflare and
how they built a differentiated product
then and evolve that over time versus
incumbents and fellow upstarts in what
is obviously an in- demand market. And
through this story, Sam gets into the
product offerings that led to
Cloudflare's leading market share, some
of the new evolutions, and what that
might mean for growth looking forward,
and how to conceptualize that and break
it down through the various buckets. So,
if you have any interest in better
understanding the world of cyber
security, you will enjoy this episode.
All
right, Sam, I am excited to have you
here to break down Cloudflare.
It is a tech company that I think is
obviously understood by tech investors.
Generalists maybe have more of a
highlevel understanding and I think the
population at large probably has very
little understanding of what's going on.
We're going to do our best get that
understanding before we get into the
overall business and what it looks like
today. And just to start there, how
would you describe, explain, paint a
picture of what Cloudflare does as a
business and as a technology for its
customers?
>> Cloudflare has many different products
and we'll get to these throughout this
conversation, but the most common one
and is what they started with is their
application services and their website
services. Cloudflare provides speed and
security for your website. Their
customers are companies with a website.
This could be your weekend hobby project
or it could be some of the largest
companies in the world with some of the
most traffic websites in the world. So
if you run this website, it has a public
URL. So anyone can visit it. But that
also means that anyone can attack it. So
Cloudflare provides security to prevent
these spam attacks. These are known as
DOS attacks that basically try to
overload your servers. Hackers will try
and intercept and manipulate internet
traffic. Cloudflare will protect you
from that and it prevents bots from
scraping your website. That probably
sounded a little technical. So maybe an
analogy for these internet services I
like to think of is a postal service.
Let's say you run a website which in
this analogy would be say a warehouse
that ships out products. So you'll get
in mail orders from all over the world.
This would be your internet requests. In
this analogy, Cloudflare would be a
sorting factory that intercepts all of
your mail. They'll block junk mail for
you. They'll block organized spam mail
attacks that might try to clog up your
mailbox. They'll scan all incoming boxes
to make sure there's nothing malicious
coming in. So, this is all their
application security. They extend this
further. So, in this analogy, they would
also help you set up local warehouses to
reduce international shipping. They
would create dedicated fast freeways for
postal services. They can speed up the
whole postal network. So they provide
all these things to make your website
fast and secure. You're proving to me
that I use the internet quite a bit but
don't fully appreciate all that's going
behind the scenes when I'm clicking
around and ordering things and whatnot.
One of their customers is Shopify. Can
you just give a relatable example of
what it would look like for Cloudflare
helping out Shopify? The speed portion
makes a lot of sense in terms of making
sure that they can run on optimized
speed, but from a security perspective,
what might that look like in a scenario
>> for Shopify? They have millions of
merchant storefronts. From the security
point, let's say a massive botnet, they
attack a specific store. Let's say it's
during Black Friday. Without Cloudflare,
that merchant servers, they're just
going to get overloaded. The website
would go down and they can't make any
sales. But with Cloudflare, they're
going to absorb that traffic at the
edge, the website's protected, and it
can stay online. That's really important
for these e-commerce companies because
if your website's down, well, you're not
making any revenue.
>> It's a time is money type thing. anytime
there's an outage or things go down.
Before we get into some of the history,
can you just give me a sense of how big
Cloudflare is today just in terms of any
numbers that would capture the size and
impact that they have in the market?
Cloudflare is huge and when you think
about the scale of the internet, it's
sometimes hard to wrap your head around,
but Cloudflare you can think of as a
single global private network that runs
all this traffic. And over 20% of the
world's web runs through Cloudflare
servers. So that's the scale that we're
talking about. And in terms of cyber
attacks, an average of over 2 and a half
million cyber attacks every single
second is absorbed and blocked by the
Cloudflare network. Two and a half
million cyber attacks per second is
somewhat frightening to me that that
that's happening. Totally. Let's get
into the history here because I know it
has evolved quite a bit over the years
and you don't get to that 20% without
evolution. What's the founding story?
Obviously wasn't around before the
internet, but tell me a bit about
founding story, founding team, and some
of those key moments in the history.
It's really important to understand the
history of Cloudflare because if you can
understand why they were successful in
the start and how they got their initial
foothold in the market, all of their new
products built on top of that. So if you
understand the history, then you can
understand all of their new products.
Cloudflare, they were founded in 2009 by
Matthew Prince, Michelle Zatland, and
Lee Holloway. They now have over two
billion in revenue. One thing to always
remember about the internet is that
everything still runs on physical
hardware. So there's cables that
actually run across the oceans. They run
through mountains and they physically
connect server boxes that intercept and
process all this internet traffic.
Before Cloudflare was founded, let's use
an example of someone based in New York.
They want to visit a website in
Australia. So to do that, you send a
request all the way from New York to
Australia. They process that and then
send it all the way back through a cable
across the Pacific Ocean back to the
server. So that's slow and it also costs
your ISP, your internet service provider
some money because they have to pay some
transfer fees to work with other ISPs
across the world. So this is a bit of a
a lose-lose situation for the ISP. They
have to pay transfer fees and it's a bad
and slow customer experience. This is
still before Cloudflare. Some of the
early legacy companies, let's say Aami,
they provide what's called a CDN,
content delivery network. The Australian
website can pay Akami to store images or
some of the other website assets in a
server in New York. Anytime someone in
New York visits the same Australian
website, it's just pulling the data from
New York across the city much faster.
One thing that's important to understand
because it sets up Cloudflare well is
that these legacy companies like Akami,
they split the network. Customers have
to decide what to put on their CDN
network and what to handle directly. To
set this up, you need a sales engineer.
It's complex implementation. There's a
lot of ongoing maintenance and then if
you buy a different service then you
have to administer that and set up a
whole different network and decide what
to get redirected where. Also, this
website in Australia, for example, might
want to only serve valid requests. So,
they actually have to buy a physical
firewall to intercept and check this
traffic. All these services, they're
what's called reverse proxies, which
basically means they just intercept
incoming traffic on behalf of the
website. And that's part of the security
piece that we talked about earlier. So,
that's the lay of the land before
Cloudflare. This was all very difficult.
It needed those sales engineers. This
was only really accessible for larger
enterprises and more sophisticated
websites and these legacy vendors didn't
have a solution for the long tale of
websites that Cloudflare started
serving. If we want to just relate this
back to the postal example, this legacy
setup would be if that website in
Australia, they would have to inform all
of the different postal routing services
all over the world. They would have to
tell them their different split rules.
If the mail is directed to this
department, use this address. If it's
directed to this department, use this
address. If it's a package, use this
address. And that takes maintenance
because if your rules change, you have
to update that. And it's a lot of work.
That's a bit of a history of the
pre-cloudflare time. Feels very manually
intensive and a bit of a traveling
salesman problem in terms of optimizing
for where things go.
>> So now we can get to Cloudflare. Matthew
Prince, the co-founder and CEO of
Cloudflare. A very interesting
background. Tinkered with computers as a
child, studied literature and became a
lawyer. And you can see that with his
storytelling abilities. Now, here's an
interesting background. He was set to
take over his family business, which
actually included running a Hudooters.
He didn't want that, so he went to HBS.
But before and during that, he was
working on a project called Project
Honeypot. And that eventually became
Cloudflare. So he was working on project
honeypot with the technical co-founder
Lee Holay who was responsible for a lot
of the early code and a lot of the early
innovations. Unfortunately Lee was
diagnosed with frontto temporal dementia
so he's no longer with the business but
his technical influence remains strong
throughout Cloudflare today. Project
Honeypot it's kind of as it sounds. It
was a way to let hackers and spammers
scrape email addresses from your
website, but these email addresses were
just trackers. You could see if someone
tried to spam that email address, they
would get put on effectively a big list
of bad addresses. It was creating a big
bad list. It was effectively a do not
call list for spammers. Hundreds of
thousand people were installing Honeypot
to help build out this list. and they'll
helping build out this list because they
wanted to be protected from this list.
So the more users, the better the
service because the list got bigger. At
HBS, this is where Matthew met Michelle
Zatlin. She's now the COO. She heard
about this idea and and wanted to be a
part of it. They're a great pair.
Matthew Brands is a real visionary and
Michelle brings a lot of the operational
rigor. Now we can get into the technical
side of Cloudflare and I'll keep it high
level but they had this honeypot list a
list of bad actors but it's a tricky
problem to solve because it's
effectively a lookup table right you see
an incoming address you compare that to
the list and see whether you want to
accept the request or not so one way
would be to put it on all of your
customers servers and they can do the
lookup but that would slow the entire
internet down because every single
request now has to compare. So what
Cloudflare did and this was the real
innovation was that they just
intercepted everything. You didn't need
multiple reverse proxies to do different
things. You just have one reverse proxy.
That's Cloudflare and that does many
things.
>> Were they getting paid to do that?
>> No. And this is a story throughout
Cloudflare. A lot of their products
they'll turn on and they have a very
generous free program. But this helps
build out their business moat, improve
their products and create a business
that's highly defensible.
>> Network effect beneficiary and getting
the free service out there can lead to
that.
>> Totally. That project honeypot was the
exact start of this. So all these
customers could just redirect all of
their traffic to Cloudflare and they
would do the lookup. Now this is really
hard to do. So Lee Holay was able to
build a technical solution on this. If
we relate this back to our postal
example, instead of splitting the
network and all that, all you have to do
now is just say, "My new mailing address
is Cloudflare." No matter what the
recipient is, no matter what the package
type, Cloudflare will intercept it and
decide what to do with it. What this
allowed is because it's intercepting
everything. If you want to add another
service, whether it's a CDN or a DOS
protection, it doesn't matter. You can
just really easily turn that on and off.
You don't need that sales engineer that
we mentioned before. Cloudflare is
already in front of your traffic. You
don't have to redirect anything. So that
makes it simple. So this was the main
breakthrough for Cloudflare. They could
now serve that long tale of websites and
they were the first real productled
growth company for internet services.
Anyone could sign up really quickly.
They could serve all those like weekend
hobby projects, all the small websites
and start providing web protection
services for them. In terms of getting
those users, were they just in front of
the community of open-source developers
or was there anything that got the
attention to where they got that initial
user base going? Was there anything that
stands out?
>> A lot of their early customers, they
served a lot of nonprofits because they
had a lot of traffic but couldn't pay
much. So, that was really big. And they
actually served a lot of the hacker
community because a lot of hackers get
hacked as well. So hackers would sign up
to Cloudflare to protect themselves.
Those are some of the big starting
customers that really proved that this
service could work because if they could
protect hackers, then they could protect
a more basic website as well. It's very
interesting. It also introduces they had
to then be better than the hackers
because in theory the hackers would see
what they're doing. The hacking
community is one that is fascinating to
me. One thing that's important to
understand and this is why their
business is so hard to replicate if
anyone tried is trying to understand why
competitors just didn't do what they
did. Why not just intercept all the
traffic? The reasons would be revenue
and costs. So with revenue cloud player,
it's a classic case of the innovator's
dilemma. So these large enterprises that
I mentioned before, they didn't want to
offer this simple interception because
that's not what the large enterprises
wanted. So the short-term revenue wasn't
there. So Cloudflare could build for
this long tail on their own. And then
costs is the other reason that
competitors didn't do this. It's really
technically difficult to build a system
that scales to intercept all the
traffic. And they made a decision early
on to just use commodity hardware. They
didn't want dedicated hardware to
process this. They created a software
definfined network which was inspired by
Google running on commodity hardware. So
they could just scale their network with
cheaper hardware. And today that's still
the case. Today Cloudflare is still that
single global network of commodity
hardware with layers of very
sophisticated software on top of that.
And another really important thing is
the peering relationships with the ISPs.
So ISP is who you pay each month for
your internet bill. If we go back to
that New York Australia example we
mentioned earlier, let's say you visit a
small website in Australia. this small
website, they can't afford those legacy
services that only cater towards the
enterprises. In this case, the ISP has
to pay those transfer fees to get the
traffic to and from Australia and the
ISPs provide a slow traffic experience.
So, it's lose-lose. Those enterprises
aren't serving those customers. Now
because Cloudflare makes it easy, they
have that productled growth and that
really generous premium model, they can
start providing those services for these
small websites. Now one website isn't
enough, but if you aggregate that whole
long tail that they serve, Cloudflare
has negotiating power for the ISP. They
can say, I see you're transferring a lot
of bandwidth to this region, and I know
that because I see all the traffic from
my customers, so why don't I just put my
server next to yours? will have a
peering relationship. That means you
don't have to pay those transfer fees.
I'll serve the content directly. And
that ISP situation has gone from a
lose-lose kind of cost and slow internet
to a win-win because they don't have to
pay those transfer fees and their
internet just sped up. So, Cloudflare
can negotiate this relationship and
often doesn't have to pay bandwidth
fees.
>> Is the ISP the loser in that case? I
would say it's a win-win situation
because without Cloudflare, they have to
pay the cost of connecting to other
networks. So, it's a cost for the ISP.
If you think about your own internet
experience, if your internet's slow, you
don't blame the fact that the server is
on the other side of the world or
anything like that, you blame your
internet service provider. By partnering
with Cloudflare, they cut out those
costs cuz they just serve it from
Cloudflare and they can speed up their
internet so their customers are happier.
They partner with all these ISPs across
the world. And one way that I like to
visualize Cloudflare is they have this
single global network that spans across
the world. It's a single web and that
connects to all these sub networks, all
the ISPs. And today their single global
network connects to over 13,000
different networks directly. And these
sub networks could be ISPs, they could
be cloud providers, they could be
corporate networks, but they connect
them all together in this one
connectivity layer. Now we're ready to
piece this all together. I think this is
the most important part of the
Cloudflare business. So if you put this
history together, it creates a
reinforcing loop. So I'll try and help
you visualize it that at the top of the
cycle, we talked about their low
bandwidth and low hardware costs and
their easy to use product that enables
this productled growth motion. So they
can serve that long tail of customers.
What that enables is more traffic goes
through their servers. So they collect
more signals, they collect more data,
and then they get better and better at
blocking malicious actors. They get
better at optimizing the network for
speed and just providing better website
services and better services, which is
halfway around the cycle. Now that leads
to more paying customers and more
enterprise customers, which again brings
in more traffic. And then as they get
more traffic, they can negotiate even
more with these ISPs
to reduce their bandwidth fees further,
create more peering relationships that
brings their costs down further. And
then they can reinvest that revenue and
cost saving back into their global
network, create more products
continually building out. And the cycle
continues. They attract more of that
long tail, collect more data, build out
their network. This network gets better
as it gets bigger. We often look for
businesses that follow this
characteristic because they've been
doing this for over 15 years. It's an
incredibly difficult system to replicate
and it's a really important part of
their moat. So that's how they can
continually offer these premium services
while processing over 20% of the world's
traffic. And it's just a powerful
reinforcing loop that gets stronger and
stronger
>> in terms of controlling that volume.
That puts you in a better position from
a negotiating perspective, you can bring
down costs in a lot of ways. But for a
business like this, which is trying to
detect certain things and optimize
certain things, you get better in terms
of what you're offering if done right.
on the evolutions that occurred over
that period. I'm really curious too just
in terms of when they hit a point of
evolving into the commercial operations,
what that looked like, how challenging
that might have been, and then some of
the products that have been layered on
since then because it definitely has
evolved into a full suite of things that
are very complimentary. But how did that
pace out together?
>> The Cloudflare we just described looked
very different to the Cloudflare of
today in terms of their product suite.
The main product evolutions have been
going from that productled growth to
enterprise and then using that single
global network to add services. So
they've added a lot of internal cyber
security products and then a whole
developer platform on them. We can go
through each of those. The first one is
just that transition from serving this
longtail only of premium customers to
serving the biggest websites in the
world. And it follows that same loop.
The more data they collected, the more
they could build out the network, it
reached a tipping point where now their
capacity and their services were better
than the legacy companies. The capacity
to absorb say cyber attacks or those DOS
attacks is just unmatched. And a recent
example they gave in one of their
earnings call is they won over a large
customer because their DOS protection
capacity was over four times the two
legacy competitors combined. It was over
30 terabytes per second that they just
easily absorbed because they've
continually built out this network. So
they can serve the longtail and now
these high willingness to pay enterprise
customers. That's one product evolution
within their original product set.
they're able to evolve just from those
web security products to this whole new
market of internal cyber security.
>> I've seen a lot of references to this in
terms of kind of a growth engine, but
how would you articulate what's going on
there? I think it's clear once it's
articulated, but describe that for the
audience.
>> If you think about the services I just
explained, it's Cloudflare intercepting
outside traffic for a website. What they
realize is that we have all this
hardware.
Why don't we intercept and inspect
traffic that goes from a company to the
outside world? It's basically the other
way. This is a reverse proxy and a
forward proxy and they use the same
hardware for that. So if you think of a
reverse proxy as protecting a website
from the public internet, a forward
proxy server which is the whole security
products is protecting an employee from
the outside internet. It protects you
when you have outbound traffic. This is
the basis of the whole product suite.
It's often termed zero trust. That's a
type of approach that you can provide
these internal security products. Zero
trust means there's zero trust between
any app and any user. So if you contrast
that to old services, maybe you log into
your corporate network, you gain trust
once and then you're within your private
network. Zero trust just means just
because you could access app number one
doesn't mean you can access app number
two, you have zero trust between the
app. You have to get validated each
time. To do that, that means you have to
get inspected each time. All of your web
requests have to get inspected each
time. And that looks a lot like their
original services because they're very
very good at inspecting every single
packet. So they realized that they could
apply their commodity hardware. They
didn't have to change anything. They
just added a software layer to provide
this whole new market of internal
corporate cyber security. If I'm
thinking about that as an internal
employee, would that be if I'm logged in
and I click on a link that goes to a
website, it's giving me the alert that
this looks unsafe. Does it extend beyond
that in terms of fishing emails and
scams? Curious to know who's doing what
in the chain of constant precautions
that I'm being told.
>> Anytime you're doing something on the
internet in a work context, that's this
whole space. And Cloudflare has a
solution to that. It's a very broad
market. There's a lot of competitors in
here. There's probably three buckets of
activity that an employer will commonly
take that you need to protect. One would
be you're on your work laptop or your
work network and you're visiting an
outside public website and you want to
make sure that the traffic going in and
out of your work environment to the
public internet is safe and secure. The
second type would be you're working just
with your internal apps. you're checking
Salesforce, you're checking Service Now,
things like that. So, you need to make
sure that you're actually approved and
this is that zero trust approved to view
each app. And then maybe there's
different policies on what you can view.
And then the third bucket is I guess all
the adjacent things with that the email
security is one protecting against
fishing attacks and things like that.
I've definitely experienced where being
on prim certain apps even but when I'm
off prim on mobile or on my own device
there are certain restrictions on what I
can access for good reason. I have some
sense of how they've evolved pretty
naturally from being that external third
party guard dog of sorts to also
protecting from the inside. Would you
point to anything else just in terms of
the evolution or what they've rolled out
that was key or monumental in terms of
the development of the overall business
and what they offered? This is a
continual evolution that all companies
are going through is your corporate
environment used to just be your onrem
network but now everything's
cloud-based. You can work from home, you
can work from anywhere. The corporate
perimeter, the security perimeter is
effectively the whole internet. That's
why they can fit nicely in there and
provide those services. They realized
that with their hardware system and
their single global network, they could
expand from web services to corporate
security. The way they did that was
building a lot of the software
themselves. To be able to provide these
services at a global scale, they often
had to build a lot of their own
software. They couldn't rely on AWS, for
example. no one else could handle their
scale and they wanted to have really
strong security. What that meant is they
have this proprietary software stack
that leads to their next product
evolution where they realize that if you
can build Cloudflare using these
internal tools that we've built
ourselves, then other developers will be
able to build really powerful products
with these tools as well. So they
started offering these services to the
developer market. So these include
things like cloud storage, lightweight
databases, video services, and their
flagship product in this what's called
ACT 3 is the Cloudflare workers. So
that's a serverless function service and
they specialize in lightweight
containers, lightweight functions that
can be spun up and spun down really
quickly to solve bite-siz tasks. And are
these developers working within
corporations where what Cloudflare is
building off the shelf needs to be maybe
expanded upon and they're incorporating
it there or is it separate from the
enterprise corporate type clients and
it's developers that are building some
unique product and then selling it
themselves to a different audience.
>> It's currently quite separate. You don't
have to use these products together. You
can just be a developer building a
weekend hobby project and you want to
use the Cloudflare serverless functions.
That's a totally valid use case. They're
working to bring the products together
into a more unified experience, but they
don't need to be. You can use these
Cloudflare developer products on
anything really.
>> The developers, I assume, are then
paying Cloudflare some software cost to
use that.
>> That's right. So similar to other cloud
models like say from the hyperscalers
their developer products follow a usage
based prices model. So the more you use
the more you pay. But similar to the
early products they have a very generous
free tier because they really want to
attract that long tale of developers and
then bring that into the enterprise
which is what they're doing at the
moment. So there's over 3 million
developers building using these
Cloudflare developer products. A lot of
them would be building quite
sophisticated functions just within
their free tier. To give a sense of how
generous this free tier is, I think with
their workers serless functions, you can
query that up to 100,000 times a day.
Their storage is 10 GB per month with
zero egress fees, which is dramatically
cheaper than a lot of the alternative
developer products. Can you just give an
example of what a developer might build
with the tools just to give a sense of
what a tangible example might be?
Cloudflare workers are best for quick
functions that need to be done close to
the user. Maybe one quick example would
be that if you're loading a website, you
might have a quick worker script that
changes the local pricing or changes the
local language based on where that web
page is loaded. that's done at the edge.
So it's faster than quering say a
central database to generate the page
from scratch. The way to conceptually
think about these workers is anytime you
can take like a task and put it into
bite-sized functions, it's good for that
just because they spin up so quickly and
then turn themselves off. It is a
slightly different way of thinking
because you're deploying again to the
single global network. If you deploy a
function to AWS, you might put that on
the US East servers. So it lives there.
So if you call that function, you have
to travel there. Whereas with
Cloudflare, if say you're building an
app in New Zealand, you deploy a
function immediately in London, someone
can query that website and that same
function is served from that London
server at the edge. Everything gets
propagated around really quickly, which
is just another benefit of this single
global network that they've built. Yeah,
I can speak to that example as someone
who tends to find myself on UK or Japan
websites. Just the currency switch is
always beneficial. Saves me some time
from doing the currency conversion. When
you think about AI, this is a business
that has clearly benefited and took
advantage of what the cloud has provided
in terms of opportunities, been very
thoughtful about that and evolved
naturally into different pieces of an
organization and offering more. So, two
different things riding away, but also
being operationally thoughtful about how
they're going in market. When you think
about where they fit into the AI boom
and potential to be whatever they might
be in that world, how do you frame it?
And then how does the management team
talk about where Cloudflare fits into
the AI ecosystem?
>> I would say they fit kind of all around
the AI industry and there's probably
four ways I'll describe this. First way
is just the adjacent tailwinds which you
mentioned as people want to use AI then
they're thinking more about their data
strategy and often you want your AI
agents for example to read a lot of data
and you might want to do that quickly
without paying a lot of egress fees. So
there's tailwinds in general for
Cloudflare's approach for doing that. So
that's the first relationship to AI is
just adjacent services. The next three
are the different sides of AI that they
serve. The first is just serving the AI
companies themselves. The latest
reporting was that 80% of the top AI
native companies, the top AI companies
were Cloudflare customers. So that just
shows that this next generation, this
next era of businesses still look to
Cloudflare first. So if they're
providing other services for these AI
companies, it positions them well to
provide AI services as well. That's one
is just serving the customers
themselves. The second direct AI
involvement with Cloudflare is inference
themselves. They've started to offer
inference at the edge through their
workers AI product. It's a slight
evolution from their previous strategy
where they still have this single global
network, but previously every component
like every piece of that hardware could
provide every service, which is really
powerful because it just meant the
return on investment on each of those
pieces of hardware could be split across
all of their products. But now with AI
inference, the hardware starts to
matter. They had to install GPUs across
their servers. They have servers across
330 different cities across the world.
This was done really quickly. So,
Cloudflare is a very long-term strategic
company. When they're actually designing
their motherboards for all of their
chips, they left an empty slot open
because they didn't know what would it
be for, what the use case would be, but
they needed it just in case something
came up. And it turns out AI inference
was that something. So they could go to
all of their boxes and simply just plug
in a GPU and then AI inference is
available across the world at all of
these locations. This is serving these
LLM models. You can quickly query an
open source model for text generation,
image generation, voice or enterprise
customers can deploy their own custom
LLMs as well. And again that gets
propagated across their single global
network. The AI inference from
Cloudflare can be done really quickly at
the edge. And as I mentioned before,
Cloudflare workers are really quick at
spinning up and spinning down. So unlike
say hyperscaler, you don't have to
pre-book or pre-provision capacity. You
only use for what you pay for. If an
inference is small and you don't use it
for a day, you're not going to pay
anything. So it only charges you
directly on the AI inference that you
use.
>> It feels like a key layer of
infrastructure. So you could see them on
all sides of the market. Thinking about
how they transitioned, you mentioned
they got to a point where their offering
was on par and then eventually better
than what incumbents and legacy
providers were offering. Can you talk
about what that looks like? because I
imagine they broke into the enterprise
market over time, what that looked like,
how they approach it, some of the nuance
to what it looks like to have an
enterprise contract. This is an ongoing
evolution, their go to market changes.
Three things I'll call out. One is just
the general enterprise sales motion, the
partner motion, which is really
important to understand, and then their
pool of funds bundling strategy. So the
first go to market evolution was the
enterprise sales. This is just a typical
transformation from productled sales to
enterprise sales and the product
capabilities were there but it's still a
new go to market muscle and across all
companies this is never an easy
transition particularly as you're moving
into security as well it's a new buyer
for them instead of just an IT
administrator that is looking over the
website you're now selling to the whole
security office it could be a multiple
month process so they had to build this
new go to market muscle out so in 2023
they actually saw all their rep
productivity start to drop and they had
to let go a lot of their sales team. But
in 2024, they brought in a new president
of revenue, Mark Anderson. He's
incredibly experienced. He's formerly
president of sales for PaloAlto
Networks, CEO of Alterex. So, he has
this deep experience with enterprise
sales. This transformation, they're
hiring a lot more reps. They've switched
from hiring majority mid-market reps to
now hiring a majority of enterprise reps
and they're still keeping this
productled growth because it's so
important to their story, but now
they're really increasing their salesled
growth motion. There's still ongoing
transformation, but quick quantitative
proof that we're starting to see is that
the growth of revenue from large
customers has started to inlect. it was
around 30% and and now it's starting to
inflict up to 40% year-over-year. So,
really impressive transformation.
>> How big of a chunk of the business is it
today?
>> If you look at customers over $100,000
in revenue, they're less than one and a
half% of the actual customer base, but
they contribute to about 75% of the
revenue. It's very important to get this
segment right. There's a long runway to
that segment as well. They're at bit
over 2 billion of annualized revenue.
With that, they have a bit less than 200
customers that are over $1 million. If
you compare that to Zcaler when they're
at that same size, that 2 billion run
rate, they had almost 500 customers with
that $1 million revenue. So, it
highlights that runway that they have at
that very large enterprise end. And the
go to market transformation is a big
part of that.
How much stickiness is there both from a
perspective of keeping customers but
also being able to win share from some
of the competition? Are there long-term
contracts that are in place? Is there a
major friction associated with ripping
out old infrastructure and implementing
new? Seems like they've been able to
gain market share, but how much goes
into that and what are some of the
unique dynamics there? It's definitely a
sticky product because if you have all
your kind of web security set up, it
would take a lot to migrate from that
and a lot of convincing to do to migrate
away from such a powerful network. So
there is definitely a stickiness
involved and one way to look at that is
the net revenue retention over the
years. It's always been above 110%. In
the last few years, it has dipped a
little to 112 in the last few quarters,
but with a lot of their other efforts,
which is the pool of funds, recent
initiative, that's been starting to
inflect and the latest quarter will Q3
that reacelerated up to 119%. So going
from 112% up to 119% of expansion of
existing customers is a significant
reaceleration and obviously their
product's important but some of this go
to market contracting is really
important as well.
>> I want to get to the partner strategy
but you mentioned the pool of funds and
how that might link to that
reaceleration. Can you describe that?
We've spoken about like the three
different products, the web security,
the corporate security and then the
developer platform. We also spoke that
it can be quite separate. What that
meant is you could have three different
buyers and you could have a company that
were using each of the three different
product groups but not necessarily
talking to each other. There's a bit too
much friction for what should be a
smoother process for working on a single
platform. So that's where they
introduced pool of funds. This is a
bundling method and it's also as it
sounds it's a pool of funds that large
customers can draw down from. What's
really important with this is that you
can draw it down from any product. So
this really encourages
experimentation and adoption of some of
their newer products. These are multiple
year commitments as well. This is their
top enterprise customers and they
recently signed a $130 million 5-year
contract. So these are big contracts.
But what it means is if you plan to say
use 80% of these pool of funds on say
act one, you still have a little
capacity and flexibility to experiment
and try out a few of these workers
products. You'll see that they work at
an enterprise scale and that just
encourages the adoption there. It's
still a fairly new initiative roll down
2024 but it's already up to low double
digits of their total annual contract
value. A quick metric to show that this
is working is that this puts a lot of
focus on RPO the remaining performance
obligations that's been growing around
40% year-over-year through 2025. So
there's very high growth at this scale
and these pool of funds are contributing
to that and I mentioned before that it's
starting to accelerate the net revenue
retention as well. Obviously not all
from pool of funds because it's still
new but it's a contributing factor as
well. It's a really interesting
strategy. You look at all these
different businesses that have
complimentary products, but often times
we glance over that you have different
divisions that are buying them,
different customers, and what seems
complimentary gets bogged down in
frictions associated with that and you
don't get the synergistic effect that
you should. I'm sure it exists elsewhere
in terms of this type of approach
pulling funds, but that's quite notable.
On the partner strategy, which I I
skipped over, but you referenced before,
what does that buyer base look like?
What does that strategy look like? And
when did that come into play?
>> So, the channel partner strategy, it's
really important for their act 2. This
is their internal security products
because the buyers often go through
channel partners. These channel
partners, they often have a preferred
vendor list. So the relationships with
these partners, and these could be
consultants, system integrators, if
you're not on their preferred vendor
list, it makes the sale a lot harder.
>> So would it be like WordPress might have
Cloudflare?
>> It's more like a maybe a Cognizant, a
CDW for security like Tatar and all
these consulting and professional
services groups. So they will help with
the sale and then help with the
implementation as well. These are whole
companies on their own. So the
relationships with them are really
important. So Mark Anderson, the new
CRO, brought in a new head of
partnerships, Tom Evans, and he has a
long history in these cyber security
partnerships, worldwide channel sales
lead at Pala Networks. So he has this
big rolodex to pull from. The results
for that are quite impressive. The
channel partnerled growth and the last
few quarters has been growing around 65%
year-over-year for the past 2 years. the
percentage of incremental total revenue
from partner channels has gone from
about 20% to over 40% of incremental
sales. So it's a really important driver
of their growth and there's a long
runway too. Just to really highlight how
important this channel is for security,
Cloudflare's current channel partner
revenue as a percentage of total revenue
is about 30%. And if you contrast that
to Zcaler and Net Scope, they're almost
at 90% of their revenue going through
channel partners or channel referred
partners. So there's a long runway to
go. It's a relatively new motion. So I
would say they're just getting started
there. Those channels are always
interesting. It's kind of like an
external sales force in many ways that
can do the work on behalf of you. Do
they give any sense of whether the
margin looks materially different
through the partner channel versus the
other buckets? Sometimes you get lower
margins associated with that because
there is in theory a middleman involved
but do they provide any disclosure on
that?
>> They don't give too much because it is
different depending on the partners and
that you might have different contracts.
Typically what these partners do though
is the large scale resellers will
basically take a cut. But some of the
larger ones most of their revenue is
actually from the professional services
and implementation on top. So they're
not trying to skim a product fee.
They're more interested in the
professional services that go on after
the sale. So that just helps with the
negotiation and it can protect their
margins quickly on margins. These act 2
products, they're the highest
incremental gross margin part of the
business. It's a high willingness to pay
buyer of security and you're using your
existing network. So very strong margins
in that part of the business as well.
>> Maybe we can get into the financial
business model and some of the
spreadsheet details. I think you
referenced you're looking at over two
billion in revenue on an annualized
basis today. How is it split out between
those buckets? You may have referenced
it in passing, but just a give a clean
snapshot of that.
>> They don't split it out exactly, but you
can estimate if you split it between the
act one, the act two, and the act three
products that $2 billion is majority of
act one. like it's their bread and
butter and you could estimate maybe
roughly twothirds of their revenue is
from act one maybe 30% from act two
growing quickly and then act three it's
it's still a bit smaller but growing
very quickly as well in terms of the
customer base I'm assuming most
customers or at least a large percentage
of the revenue are using multiple
products I think to your point in terms
of the large accounts being one and a
half% versus 75% of revenue kind of gets
to the power of large customers, but is
that the case where the majority of
customers are using or majority of
revenue is coming from customers that
are using multiple products?
>> That's exactly the case. And they have
over 55 revenue generating products. So
a long product sheet and customers with
more than 10 products is the fastest
growing revenue category. So that's
exactly the case.
>> Offering a premium model seems to be
ingrained in their DNA. How have they
managed that over time in terms of
continuing to offer a product that
attracts users and potentially gets them
into the funnel over time? What does
that look like? We spoke a lot about the
premium model for like how they got
started and they've really kept that in
their DNA for act two and act three as
well. The way they do it as well is it's
quite strategically different to some of
their competitors. On act one, they
don't really charge for volume. The free
users can actually get unmeated DOS
protection, free bandwidth for CDN. This
is really generous. What they actually
charge for is complexity if you want
specialized rules and special bot
management setups. But that means if
you're a website that constantly gets
attacked with high volume, they're not
going to charge you extra. They're not
going to punish you for that. That's one
interesting part of the different
strategy, at least for the act one
products. For act two, quite generous as
well, up to 50 free users. But then act
three, their premium product as well.
You can very realistically set up and
build a a sophisticated app without
paying much at all. And that's actually
what we have done at Square internally.
We've built some quite sophisticated
kind of AI products to ingest a lot of
our research, create dashboards, and
have a full AI interface built on
Cloudflare. And it generates an enormous
amount of value. and our cloud play
bills have been remarkably low.
>> Interesting that a yeah investment firm
can do that and fit into that category.
Is there a way to capture what's
subscriptionbased versus that you
mentioned like the complexity? Does that
still fall under a subscription? I'm
just trying to get an understanding of
like the contractual nature versus the
usagebased nature which I'll bucket
complexity into that if it should be.
They're not charging based on volume
necessarily, but how do you split that
up?
>> It is slightly different per product
group, but for act one, it is a
contract. It's a subscription tier. So,
you pick a plan, pro tier, business
tier, or custom enterprise tier, and
you're paying that flat monthly rate for
that tier. And it includes a bunch of
things. You would upgrade a tier when
you need more enterprise features
whether it's those complexity rules,
special splitting of traffic and things
like that. Not on volume for act one at
least. Act three, those developer
products that is more users based
pricing, no egress fees, but the users
based pricing for how much you use their
services. Putting it all together on a
margin, however you would look at this,
what do margins look like for
Cloudflare? They're a software business,
so they non-GAAP gross margins are about
75 to 78%.
This looks lower than maybe a top
performing software business that you
would expect to see, but you have to
keep in mind that they own and operate
their own physical infrastructure and
the depreciation of this equipment is
included in the reported cost of goods
sold. That naturally compresses their
gross margin. If you did want to try to
look at a cashbased gross margin to
compare apples to apples, about 6% of
their revenue is depreciation directly
tied to equipment. So if you want, you
could add that back in and compare gross
margins on an 83 85% range. As it falls
to the bottom line, whether it's IBIDA
margin, free cash flow margin, what does
that look like? Are there any major cost
buckets that eat into that? The main one
to call out is the capex, which is
naturally again a lot higher than a lot
of software businesses. The capex has
consistently been around 11 to 14% of
revenue. That's going to bring your free
cash flow margins down. And the free
cash flow margins have been around 10%
in recent years. The long-term guidance,
at least from management, is to expand
those to over 25% as operating leverage
continues to expand. They'll get the
majority of that off of the operational
costs, labor, whatever it might be.
>> Yeah. One big cost now is is their sales
and marketing cost. That's 35% of
revenue that has opportunity to come
down and there's margin points available
there as well.
>> Capital allocation. With that in mind,
it feels like a business that has
reinvestment opportunities that would
take up the majority of where that cash
flow would go. has that been kind of the
policy and how do you think about how
they allocate the capital that they do
have and their history for capex spend
and ROI and that capex
>> the capital allocation it's a really
important part of the business and
they're very strategic about how they do
it such that they get a really strong
ROI on their capex we spoke earlier
about just using commodity hardware so
that reduces the cost of the hardware
they often talk about investing behind
the demand curve so they see where the
traffic is and what the demand is before
they build. They're not just building
for no reason. What's really important
to understand with their capex is that
all of their servers can run all of
their products and provide all of their
services. So that means the capex and
the ROI is split across all of their
product lines across act 1, 2, and
three. So the incremental ROI is more
diversified and it's higher. So you're
not building a separate network for each
product. It's one network that can
contribute to the return on each
incremental capex spend. You've alluded
a lot to legacy competition. Are there
new competitors that are in the market?
It does seem like a market that will
only get more important over time. How
do you frame the competition? And does
anybody have large comparable market
share similar to what Cloudflare has
>> in act one? They've established
themselves as a leader. Some of the
legacy companies specialize in certain
types of networks where there's media
and things like that. So they they're
still important competitors, but
Cloudflare is has the biggest network
that as we mentioned is very hard to
catch up to. But in act two and act
three, it's much more competitive there.
I think act 2 is probably the most
competitive because cyber security
there's there's always new players there
always new trends and importantly
cloudflare isn't leading the innovation
there like they did in act one like
they're a second mover so zscaler is
probably the the largest pure play zero
trust act two competitor and they also
have a global network that they run and
manage themselves. It's a decent time to
bring up the outage, which I probably
like really burying the lead in terms of
recent activities and news, but just in
terms of competition and what it could
represent. Can you walk through what
exactly happened where I felt like one,
the entire internet was out on me. Two,
I learned just how many websites were
connected to Cloudflare. So, two
important things came out of that. But
maybe just an explanation of what
happened and then we can get into if
there's any residual implications from
it.
>> The outage affected everyone and I guess
one of the downsides of having a single
global network is that it can all go
down and that's what happened. I think
what's important to understand with that
outage is that it wasn't an attack. It
wasn't a security breach or anything
like that. It was a process error.
basically their bot management software
that inspects all the traffic. It's a
little machine learning model so it has
all these features. There was a upstream
error that caused those features to
double in size and their servers just
didn't have the memory for them. These
features they're updated constantly.
Every 5 minutes the model's getting
updated with new threats. Every 5
minutes a corrupted file is getting
pushed out and it broke a lot of their
services. So everything went down. It's
not dissimilar to say the crowd strike
outage that happened in 2024 where it
wasn't a security breach. It was a
process error for something that was
kind of very in the weeds. It caused all
these outages. Everyone realized
similarly how many businesses ran on
Crowd Strike. But they've come back just
as strong as ever because I think people
realize, okay, it's a process error and
they're clearly going to do something
about it, which is exactly the case with
Cloudflare. I think what the customers
and community really appreciate with
them is just how transparent they were.
They wrote a very in-depth and
transparent report day of the incident
and having quite like an engineering
forward customer base. I think that was
just really appreciated. They've
outlined process steps and updates
they'll take to make sure something like
that doesn't happen again. It's a little
tough when it's the machine learning.
You don't have a scapegoat if it's just
the machine. I guess you do, but nobody
in theory gets fired over that. or maybe
the person behind the machine learning
[laughter] who who codes that all up but
noteworthy and has it happened over
history I do think it's interesting with
businesses whether it's Moody's during
the financial crisis Equifax with
security breaches where if it doesn't
kill them it kind of proves the moat or
strength of the business in many ways
and to all different degrees but have
there been historical outages maybe not
as impactful as that one and any signal
to whether they have material impacts
whether short or long-term on the
business.
>> There was one semi-reently wasn't as big
as the one in that happened recently but
there was an outage and this actually
encouraged some internal transformation
or accelerated some internal
transformations. So I mentioned earlier
that Cloudflare is built on Cloudflare.
They built a lot of this proprietary
software to run their systems for most
of their systems but not all of them.
And this could include things like
acquisitions or other things when
they're scaling up new products, they
might borrow something.
And what happened in the previous outage
was there was an issue with like a
Google Cloud KV cache or like a small
piece of the database which flowed
through some of their products and cause
an outage. Again, wasn't a security
breach. It was an error that happens.
But what it did was they had an internal
project to migrate off those third party
solutions and that just accelerated
that. So I guess it was not good but
they kind of turned it into a strength
to increase the robustness of their
systems.
>> Then I guess based on current growth
numbers or more recent growth numbers
hasn't been too impactful on the
underlying business performance on
competition. It feels like Zcaler is one
that shows up in multiple categories.
So, I'd put them there. In act three,
you mentioned the hyperscalers, which I
think are worthy competitors for anyone
to deal with. But in terms of the
competitive risks and threats, how high
do you rate that on the risk spectrum?
Like, is it something that concerns you?
Sometimes in a growing market, if you
have one of the leaders, you usually
feel pretty good that even if things
move slightly, it's not going to be too
material. Just thinking about the
competitive threats and how fragile
their position is versus being very
strong and only strengthening. My view
is that it's a strengthening position.
say with act 2 zscale has that incumbent
advantage and that trust with very large
enterprises but it's a huge market and
cloudflare and like their other products
start at the smaller end and work up to
the enterprises and they're starting to
do that what really benefits them is
having that global network of all the
products they can use their act one
strength to prove their product
encourage adoption of the act 2 products
one example of that would be let's say
you're using zscaler for internal
security. You send a request, it goes to
Zcaler's machines and then to a website,
but that website's going to be likely
using Cloudflare. So, it ends up going
to a Cloudflare server anyway and then
back. And then, so Cloudflare is in a
really strong position. It's like, we're
processing all of this traffic anyway.
Why don't we process it on the way out
as well as the way back in? And that
will improve your latency. Another
difference would be just on their
peering networks. So it's very hard for
another company to have all these
partnerships with all these ISPs around
the world. Zcaler took a different
approach where they peered directly with
the apps which is great for dense cities
but in certain markets it doesn't work
as well. And maybe an example just to
highlight some of these differences
would be Canva. So thousands of
employees around the world, Canva, the
web design company, they employ a lot of
contractors to help out with the design
templates and things like that. And a
lot of those contractors are based in
Southeast Asia. Canva uses their
Cloudflare Act 2 products to help with
the access because Cloudflare uses
what's called like an inline service. So
you don't actually have to install an
agent or anything onto the machine,
which is really important when you're
working with contractors. You can give
these contractors access to all of the
corporate apps that they need without
having to have them install anything.
Because say a lot of these contractors
are based in markets where other
competitors won't have direct peering
relationships, Cloudflare can say,
"Look, we've been improving the speed of
this area for years.
these contractors can sign on, be
secure, and interact with your product
with low latency that's not going to
slow anyone down. And that's a really
strong value proposition that a lot of
other companies can't speak to. Are
there any other risks that really stand
out to you just from a business
perspective and the organization and and
some of the external factors sitting
around it?
>> Two risks to call out. one is that
second mover in the act two that we were
just speaking about. They are playing a
bit of a catch up, but there is a long
runway to go and they're a solid
contender there. So, I think all the
trajectory is is very positive when you
look at their product positioning, their
channel partner growth and all that, but
it's worth just calling out just because
they are the second mover. The other
risk to call out is just their AI
inference strategy and and AI in general
because it is new and it does slightly
diverge a little from their previous
strategy. So that always adds some risk
there cuz I mentioned earlier that all
of their other services can run on all
hardware whereas GPUs are specialized
for inference. with the ROI of their
other products, it was split across all
of their services, but the ROI of their
GPU component, that's just from the AI
inference. So, it's a more concentrated
ROI risk. Also, there's a slight
difference in how the AI inference
product came about from their other
products. A lot of their other products,
they kind of emerged from what
Cloudflare was doing internally. With
the act three, they had to build these
services themselves. They never planned
on launching a developer product, but
they saw the value in that and they
released it. Similar with act two, they
saw that during the day, not many people
on websites, there were underutilized
servers, so they could work with
corporate security that was used during
the day. And then during the night, this
all their website security. So they kind
of saw these opportunities and built for
them and lent into them. Whereas AI
inference, I think they just saw the
importance of the market and decided to
go after it. It's still that single
global network, but there is a bit of
top spin of difference and strategy
versus there are other product launches.
That's worth calling out.
>> Thank you for calling that out. I do
want to get your general framework for
valuation. I find software businesses,
heaven forbid, 75 to 80% gross margins
relative to the 90 that some of these
software businesses post. But how does
the market approach it? How do you think
about valuation? And just anything that
you would comment on that topic would be
useful to hear.
>> It's no secret that Cloudflare is a
highly valued company. I think at the
start of the year they were 25 times the
next 12 month revenue, which is one of
the highest in the industry. From my
perspective, I love Michelle and Matt as
the operators of Cloudflare, but
valuation, it's always a constant battle
even though it's such an impressive
company. And importantly as well, it's a
capital intensive business. So the free
cash flow margins and earnings will
start to matter more and more in say 5
years time. And they'll likely have
lower free cash flow margins than what
we've seen in best-in-class software.
But I think what gives confidence the
bullcase for Cloudflare is that there's
numerous growth levers that can support
sustained high growth and they've
sustained it in that 29 30% or higher
range and the markets that they operate
in have a lot of runway and they're
continually adding products and features
that support that sustained high growth
rate. So that's a distinguishing factor
for them. But to get comfortable with
the valuation, you have to model out two
things. You have to model out the act
two, how quickly they can catch up and
perhaps surpass the incumbents in that
space. And the trajectory is very solid
there. But also, you need to model out
what the act three scenarios could look
like. Like how important will they be
for AI inference? How big will the
inference market be? We believe that it
can be a very large business and you
have to believe that. And just quickly
on margin instructor sales and marketing
35% of revenue today there is room for
operating leverage. They've guided to
25% free cash and margins plus we think
they can exceed that. So then you can
model that out over the years and still
make money on the stock. But it's
important to call out that there's
effectively no margin for execution
error. this price for pretty flawless
execution, which they've done, but you
just have to build confidence that it
will continue.
>> Well, it was a very intellectually
honest approach to it. A 25 time sales.
I saw the SpaceX IPO headlines today,
which implied I think 100 time sales.
It's all relative in this market.
>> Yeah. Makes it look cheap. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And and the growth number
on revenue, they must be sandbagging
because it wasn't that material from
Beauty. Nonetheless, this has been
fascinating. I really tried to scrape
out as much on the technology. So, thank
you for keeping up with that. We like to
talk about the lessons that you could
take away, maybe bring it up a notch to
think about frameworks and pattern
recognition. What would you point to
from Cloudflare that really stands out?
There's a few lessons from Cloudflare
that I think can be applied generally.
I'll call out four quick ones. So,
number one, I think founder companies is
very important for companies to have
that founder vision. It can be very
powerful for setting that long-term
strategy and setting pled visions and
sticking to the company mission. Square
pegs origins are as a VC fund and then
the global tech fund listed strategy
like we still look for that founder DNA
and Matthew Prince is a great example of
that. The second general lesson would
just be looking for product simplicity,
particularly for complicated industries
to the extent they can serve the whole
long tale of the internet despite having
a very sophisticated technical
infrastructure. That sets them up really
well and it's a really positive signal.
Applying that elsewhere, I think that
applies to Snowflake as well. They have
a very powerful engine under the hood.
It's very hard to replicate, but when
you look at the product, it's a very
simple query interface. It's very easy
to use and adopt and similar with Data
Dog, very easy to get started and set
up, but it's powerful enough and
flexible enough to work with the world's
largest companies as well as the world's
smallest companies. So that looking for
that product simplicity yet flexibility
and power is really important. Number
three would just be looking for multiple
levers of growth. So great companies,
they're multiple levers of growth and
they find ways to solve more problems
for more customers over time. Cloudflare
great example of that. They've expanded
their product lines, expanded the
customer archetypes within each market
and have done so in markets that all
have tailwinds particularly for AI.
Fourth lesson would be that capex in
software can be okay provided that it
has that very high ROI. That capex is
used to build that defensibility for
their business. Talked a lot about that
earlier with that reinforcing cycle. It
creates a moat that's very hard to
replicate and because they're stacking
layers on top of that hardware, you can
extract a lot of ROI from each
individual purchase there. Those
lessons, they fit very cleanly into what
Square Peg looks for. We have a
framework around theme, team, model, and
moat. And Cloudflare, they sit at the
center of a critical theme, managing
networks for speed, efficiency, and
trust. Particularly in the era of AI,
the team, they're hungry, is founderled,
very focused, and they can attract and
retain some of the best talent in the
world. I think it's an underappreciated
highquality business model. So, it's
they can stack multiple revenue lines on
top of their core capability. And all of
these levers have that long duration
that we look for. And finally, moat.
Cloudflare. It's a business that gets
better as it gets bigger. And that's
really important. They use their scale
to enhance their differentiation and
create barriers to entry as well.
>> Capex can be okay is a good lesson. I
think AI certainly has shifted the
narrative in terms of the willingness to
accept high capex companies out there in
the market assuming that they're
creating bearish entry. We can debate
where that falls in line for companies
and whether that's true or not. But this
has been fascinating, Sam. I appreciate
you sharing all of the knowledge,
getting into the nitty-gritty details
here, giving me a better appreciation of
all that's happening on the internet
behind the scenes. So, I appreciate you
joining us. Thank you. This has been a
lot of fun.
>> To find more episodes of breakdowns
ranging from Costco to Visa to Madna or
[music] to sign up for our weekly
summary, check out join colossus.com.
That's jolsus.com.
[music]